---
layout: post
categories: post
tags: [Blog post]
title: A Canon of User Experience Literature
description: A great list of articles and books that discuss user experience design from its genesis as a professional practice to today. 
image: 
external_url:
---

I don't remember where I discovered this list; it was likely in a recent newsletter. Peter J. Bogaards put together this list that attempts to track literature about user experience design from its beginnings in 1945 to today. 

Here's what they say about it: 

> According to Webster, a canon is "a sanctioned or accepted group or body of related works." The initative to start a canon came from the fact that increasingly I noticed a lack of historical knowledge of our intellectual roots by many members of our community. Without being familiar with the 'classics' there is always the danger of repeating mistakes from the past. And also, proper knowledge of the ideas, theories and works of previous movers and shakers is always interesting, valuable and useful. Some of them were too far ahead at the time and some even be forgotten. This overview can be especially used for educational purposes getting new generations connected to relevant predecessors.
> 
> To be more specific, User Experience (UX) as a term was coined by Donald Norman when he was leading Apple's 'User Experience Architecture Group' (1995). This is a contemporary term. In the near future, the label UX wil evolve (just like experience design, customer experience or service design will). However, the field has deep historical roots. These roots are found in seminal documents on research, design and validation of user experiences in and for the digital domain. Texts upon which new and current ideas are built or are referred to. Starting from WW II on to the WWW, mobile, social and what comes after. The UX field is grounded in many disciplines and therefore is to be considered interdisciplinary.
> 
> Disclaimer: This canon is not an inventory of so-called mandatory literature written in stone, nor a stone table for eternity. It's a guide, a source of inspiration, and a guiding post for teachers, students, professionals, reading clubs, librarians, publishers and other interested readers. Our field has a lot of treasures to offer which should not be forgotten.

<br>
<a class="button-secondary" href="http://www.bogieland.com/postings/post_canonux.php">Check it out here</a>